This quickstart guide will walk you through the installation steps of the Syncano javascript library.

If you don't have a Syncano account yet, you can read about how to create one [here](http://docs.syncano.io/docs/getting-started-with-syncano).

# Installation

We offer a few ways of installing the library - `npm`, `bower`, a GitHub repository or through our CDN.

### NPM

Install the [npm module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/syncano) using:

`npm install syncano --save`

### Bower

Install the [bower module](https://www.bower.io/) using:

`bower install syncano`

### Github

Download the latest release [here](https://github.com/Syncano/syncano-js/releases) or [browse the library](https://github.com/Syncano/syncano-js).

### CDN

The library is available on our official [CDN](http://cdn.syncano.com/latest/syncano.js):

`http://cdn.syncano.com/latest/syncano.js`

# Including the library in your project

### Script tag

To use the library on the client side, include it via a script tag in your HTML document:

`<script src="path/to/bower_components/syncano/dist/syncano.min.js"></script>`

### CommonJS

The library can be used as CommonJS module via `require`:

`var Syncano = require('syncano');`

### ES6 modules

You can also use the library via `import`:

`import Syncano from 'syncano';`

# Making connections

Connecting to our services is as easy as instantiating the main object.

```
import Syncano from 'syncano';

var connection = Syncano();
```

You can configure your connection by passing a configuration object to the main `Syncano` object:

```
var connection = Syncano({ accountKey: '123' });
```

The main object also provides setters for the parameters:

```
var connection = Syncano().setAccountKey('123');
```

For a full list of the main object's properties, please refer to it's [documentation]{@link Syncano}.

# Interacting with the API

The library provides a set of models that reflect the objects available in our API. To see a list of available objects, head on to the [FAQ](http://docs.syncano.io/docs/faq/#section-what-is-an-instance-).

There are two ways of accessing the models: by instatiating the model or by calling the static `please()` method that returns a {@link QuerySet}.

With a model instance, you can `save`, `update` and `delete` objects:

```
connection.Instance({ name: 'myInstance', description: 'This is my instance'}).save();
```

With a {@link QuerySet} object returned from the `please()` method, you can perform additional operations like listing objects:

```
connection.Instance.please().list();
```

# Queries and Promises

The library uses Promises for hadling the results of operations on the API. They help you write more readable and maintainable code while interacting with our services.

To get the result of a successful query, use the `then()` method:

```
connection.Instance.please().get({ name: 'myInstance' }).then(function(result, raw) {
  // manipulate the result
});
```

Please note that the callback function can accept an additional parameter (`raw`) that contains an array

To catch errors returned from the API, use the `catch()` method:

```
connection.Instance({ name: 'myInstance', description: 'This is my instance'}).save().catch(function(error) {
  // handle the error
})
```

This pattern also provides you with an elegant way of chaining operations:

```
// create an instance
connection.Instance({ name: 'myInstance', description: 'This is my instance'}).save().then(function(instance) {
  // update the instance's description
  instance.description = 'This is a new description.';
  return instance.save();
})
.then(function(instance) {
  // the instance was updated
});

```

For a list of available query methods, check the {@link QuerySet} documentation.

# Nested models

The javascript library is designed so that it reflects the platfom's structure, therefore some of the models have child models. For example, an `Instance` has mutliple `Classes`. If we would like to list the `Classes` belonging to an `Instance` we can do something like this:

```
connection.Instance({name: 'silent-dawn-3609'}).classes().list().then(function(classes) {
  // classes list
});
```
# Default properies

You can specify default properies for all api calls. To do this, just pass an additional `defaults` object to the main Syncano object:

```
var connection = Syncano({ accountKey: '123', defaults: { instanceName: 'my-instance' });
```

There is also a method for setting just a default instance name:

```
connection.setInstanceName('my-instance');
```

If you want to unset the default instance name, just pass `null` to the `setInstanceName()` method.

You should aslo note that any new properies passed to model instances and methods like `list()` will overwrite the default properies.
